We get our base routing set up and the main components in place,
now let's continue working on this app.
I think the logical next step in my opinion at least is to now implement a header, so that we also got
some links to route instead of having to manually type it in the URL.
So let's add a header and for that since I use bootstrap anyways, I'll head over to bootstrap and pick
the header on their page,
so here under components nav bar,
we find the default bootstrap nav bar.
Now I'm grabbing this whole nav bar,
that's much more than I need but we'll strip out all the things we don't need
and with that, I'll go into my header.vue file and insert this here into this template.
With that, this is the whole bootstrap navigation bar,
now let's remove all the things we don't need,
for example I won't set it up to work on mobile phones too just to keep this simple and focused on the
core vue things here, of course you could change this and therefore I don't need that
button here, I don't need that button in my nav bar header,
also I don't need the command. What I do want indeed is my brand here,
stock trader, though that of course shouldn't be an anchor tag,
that should be a router link instead since we want to well manage this through vuejs, this link
I mean. So I'll create my router link here and I want to link to my route page just like this,
I also want to attach a class,
I can still do this of course, of nav bar brand,
this is a normal bootstrap class which gives us this brand-like look. Let's continue, what we have
here?
Here we get our navigation on the left, I want to use that, I want to have my stocks and portfolio links there,
don't
need that ID here though, I will strip some things here though. I don't need a drop down here on the
left for example so I can remove that and I don't want to use the active link here,
instead I want to basically set up my own links with router link, one for the portfolio and one for the
stocks.
However, we also want to have this anchor tag here and we learned how to do this, add an anchor tag between
the router links here because router link shall then be the least item in the end which also gets
the router link active class,
so like this
and then on this first router link, we want to go to /portfolio and on the second one, we want to
go to /stocks and whilst we're at it, we can already add the active class, so let's add the active
class attribute here and set this to active because this is what bootstrap expects
on the li item, on the list item
to mark this route as active. Well finally since I already set it, this should be a list item so let's
adds tag equals li on our router link
so that is not rendered as an anchor tag but instead as a list item. With that, we should have a set up
which works with both the bootstrap styling and our vuejs app. So I can remove the other
bootstrap links here,
that should be an equal sign of course
and with that I'd say we have our router link set up,
I don't need the form here.
Now I want to have some navigation on the right though and here, I want to indeed have a link which allows
me to end my day,
so maybe a link where I keep the standard anchor tag but then change this later on, we'll work on that,
I'll name it end day for now. And then this drop down, I want to have the dropdown,
I didn't import the bootstrap javascript code though, so it will not work by default because we want to write
the logic to open this dropdown and to handle it on our own
in vuejs. You could of course use the bootstrap javascript package to let bootstrap handle this but
on the other hand if you're using vuejs, you really want to do all or as good as all the javascript
work
through vuejs.
So I'm going to leave the drop down here anyway,
that is the sense of what I want to say here,
I'll reorder this anchor tag which opens it though, so here I will bring it simply bring that down over
multiple lines so that we can easier see what's going on here and I'll rename it to save and load
because that is what you'll be able to do in the dropdown in the end
once we implemented it and then regarding the dropdown links, I only need two,
I want to be able to save data and I want to be able to load data later on.
Now we're going to take care about the saving and loading in a later video but it's good to have it
set up right now,
also notice the dropdown, again right now will not work,
we'll also work on that.
So with this, I'd say we have a nice header in place, at least
template wise,
so if we now go back to our app.vue file, we can add this header.
Now in order to add it, we first need to add an import here of course,
so let's quickly do that,
let's import our header from this header, excuse me, components header file and then I'll register it as
a local component here
since I only use it in this component here, so here I'll register my app header with this header file
and I can therefore now add it,
so let's add app header here.
Now the question is do I want to add it here,
the answer is yes,
looks good but I also want to add a div with a class row here and then a div with a class col-md-12
here for some nicer styling and then copy my router vue in there,
that should be called xs here.
So with this in place, let's have a look at our application, we see our header here, looks already better,
one thing I want to do though is in my app.vue file, I want to add a style for my body, for this root component
body to have some extra padding of 30 pixels so that not everything sits directly on the edge. With that,
I'm liking that,
let's see if it works too,
great,
you'll also notice how the active link gets marked here.
So we get this working as it should,
with that I'd say let's move on and work on the next things in our application, specifically let's first
think what that might be.